hey everyone laszlo Montgomery here
continuing on at the China history
podcast with the life and times of the
Song Dynasty Emperor Quaid's own i'm
using patricia buckley breeze recent
biography entitled emperor white zone to
primarily tell this story so part two
this time in the last episode after a
brief overview of the northern song we
looked at the chronology of events that
led whate sewn to the Emperor ship even
though he wasn't technically next in
line wait song reigned in the early 12th
century he began his reign in 1100 the
air Cusco was founded the great Inca
capital Machu Picchu would be built
there 350 years later this is also the
time period when the compass was first
introduced to the world and that of
course enabled a whole age of
exploration thing the Knights Templar
were founded and the construction began
at Angkor Wat since that's general time
period aside from playing an unwitting
role in the demise of the northern song
dynasty wait song is mainly known as one
of China's greatest patrons of the Arts
not only that it's also accepted among
historians that Wade's on himself also
achieved his own modest success with his
skills with a brush in the palace
museums private collections and places
where the greatest Chinese art is on
display there are plenty of paintings
that once hung in the Emperor's Palace
but there aren't that many that were
actually painted by the Emperor's own
hand that's one of the things that's so
special about this Emperor they're quite
a few white zones hanging on the walls
of many museums and private collections
not only was he another in a long line
of emperors who hit a trained and
discerning eye for painting but he
excelled in calligraphy and poetry as
well back in wade's on this day you had
what was known as the three perfections
the three perfections were poetry
calligraphy and painting one's
achievement in these three skills back
then was often how you were defined in
you know elite song society to achieve
true greatness and all three perfections
was quite rare plenty though throughout
the ages
would achieve recognition in to either
poetry and calligraphy or calligraphy
and painting but to be a master of all
three man that was pretty rare and
history doesn't record too many that had
it all but this is what weight zone
wanted to be and to be seen as he was
very talented there was no doubt about
that being Emperor and all and growing
up as the younger brother to the Emperor
meant that waits on had the benefit of
learning from the best teachers aside
from the classics and mathematics the
three perfections poetry painting and
calligraphy were all part of the
learning process so weights on grew up
with this tradition was always
surrounded in this palace environment
with the smartest men in China so it's
not at all amazing that when ways own
took the throne he immediately embraced
this particular aspect of being Emperor
and you know of assuming the role of the
top arbiter of good taste and aesthetics
and the palace and chi Fong remember at
this time in the world China was
probably the most advanced richest most
educated civilization by the time of the
Song Dynasty all kinds of things were
happening that were causing a hole
explosion of activity masses of people
were on the move for the first time in
China there was upward mobility and
government for men of talent and the
economy was booming China's population
had a hundred million for the first time
so today let's look at the early years
of white zones rain how he kept juggling
officials and what kind of people he
surrounded himself with there were six
era names to the reign of white zone we
looked at the gen John jinghua era 1102
1101 today our focus is the CH owning
era 1102 to 11 06 and the doc wan era
1107 2 11 10 these are Iran names
Chinese nian Hulk this was something
Emperor's did going back to the Han
Dynasty sort of a marketing tool you
know the imperial court used to brand a
new
age and the Emperor's overall rain so
1111 01 this single year they called the
gen John Jinggoy era gen John means to
establish the middle which in this case
means the middle ground between the two
opposing factions jinghua means tranquil
country so remember when when he mounted
the throne weights on was determined to
make peace between the conservative and
reform factions and invited talent from
both sides of the aisle in addition to
that a peaceful China was also weighed
songs goal so they came out of the
starting gate this way in an 1102 a new
era began with the atoning anyway wait
song did this six times during his reign
six Aaron names to quickly review Wong
on shears reforms happened under the
Shenzhen Emperor then he dies and there
is a backlash under the Joads on Emperor
and the backbiting going on between the
reformers and conservatives is something
fierce during judge songs rain so once
brother Jude xong dies and wade xong
becomes Emperor he is determined to
become the great bridge of
reconciliation and cooperation between
these two warring Palace factions and
instead ends up pleasing nobody he
picked as his chief counselors Han Xiang
Yin a moderate conservative and son bou
a moderate reformer we discussed these
guys last time song boo tried and failed
to stare a centrist path the
conservative faction pulled out all the
stops to get rid of him and ultimately
succeeded Chang Gwon was someone's ANBU
had invited into the top levels of
government very capable official but if
a different story politics than song boo
once Chang Gwon had gained weight songs
trust he would try and ultimately
succeed in bringing down some boo so you
might recall from the last episode wait
song brought all these conservatives
into his predominantly reform-minded
administration in a year later the
fighting got so bad that he had to get
rid of them including I'm Chong yang
boo they were replaced with men like
jolting jersey i jinked IBN zhang xiang
yang conservatives were back in the
doghouse again and the reforms of one
unsure carried out by the shun song
Emperor made a comeback only one year
into the Emperor's rain his adopted
mother the Empress Dowager sheung left
this world things like this always
offered in a whole wave of ceremony
ritual not to mention great expense
remember he had called on Empress
dowager's young to become his advisor
when he became emperor something which
she reluctantly agreed well after her
death she was off the hook and was
finished for good with the song court
politics this part of the Emperor ship
the ritual part quite song always did
well he took all these rituals seriously
and performed all the rights demanded by
the Emperor in his role as son of heaven
and it was the three Lee's that since
the Joe and Han dynasties dictated just
about everything there was that had
anything to do with Palace ritual the
three Lee's or the San Lee where the
Jolie ye Li and the Li Jie the rights of
Joe the book of etiquette and rights and
the book of rites these three Confucian
works comprised the rule book for one's
personal conduct decorum and carrying
out rituals including those carried out
specifically by the Emperor only the lee
ji was considered one of the sacred
books of Confucianism to eschew wu Jing
the four books in the five classics but
these three Lee's formed the core of
Confucian rites and rituals Wade's wang
had a major hand and national finances
as well the state brought in an annual
revenue equivalent to 100 million
strings of cash a string of cash would
be a thousand coins you know those
copper coins with the square holes in
the center all strung together the
biggest expense was the military thirty
percent of government revenues went to
that in the US we're at about twenty
percent give
just to manage the day-to-day expenses
of the palace and all the Royals ate up
another five percent of the budget and
to avoid putting all their eggs in one
basket the way they did it back then was
to spread the Treasury out amongst you
know 100 smaller like Fort Knox's in and
around chi Fong quaid zone like past and
future Emperors had a privy purse that
he himself had discretion to spend as he
saw fit let's get back to tie jing who
we mentioned in the last episode he
became Wade's own senior grand
councillor in 1102 he was one of chen
guan's rivals and the to constantly
jockey for position at the top ty jing
remained the bane of all conservatives
at court and came down hard on them when
they would express dissent to not go
along with what the Emperor said in
theory the way it worked was weed songs
shared power with his council of state
of which tie Jing was the top guy as
powerful as hi jing was he wasn't
omnipotent and was kept in check by the
censor it and the bureau of policy
criticism Wade song after dealing with
the cacophony of voices all clamoring
for his attention took the path of least
resistance and opted to work with just
one guy instead that for the most part
for the next 18 years would beats hi
jing boyd song set the tone early on
when he said to tie jing quote shenzhen
created the new policies and the former
emperor jodes on continue them twice
there were reversals so that our
national destiny is not yet fulfilled i
wish to return to the goals of my father
and elder brother unquote ty jing signed
on and promised the Emperor to help
achieve this objective zong boo who
proceeded hi Ching had written about the
two factions this way he refers to the
UN yo period this is the air and name of
the period in the preceding Judd song
Emperor's rain where the anti reformers
made a comeback and rolled back all
wrong on shares reforms these became
known as the UN you affection these were
guys like a soldier samad Guang
gwan there's actually a book that came
out in 2008 re Daniel Levine is the
author and the book is called divided by
a common language factional conflict in
late northern Song China that's from
University of Hawaii press lots of
source material managed to survive the
Jurchens and Kublai Khan's hordes to
make it down to this day so there's
quite a detailed record of all the
political shenanigans that went on all
around the hood song and wait song
Emperor's anyway here's what Patricia
ebury quoted in her book from sunpu
quote formally during the yin yo period
powerful officials monopolized power and
led evil factions to slander the former
were these good government and excellent
institutions and made reckless changes
to them during the Xiao Chun period when
Jude xong personally took charge of the
government he clearly saw through the
group's deceptions and banished them in
full accord with the law when I took
over the slate was wiped clean and they
were all taken back and brought to court
and yet they conspired to restore the UN
yo system stubbornly they took ruining
the new policies to be payback and
hostility to be their responsibility as
they slandered and slandered so as the
atoning era began all kinds of reforms
were rolled out education Public Welfare
how officials should be trained and
selected reforms were also made within
the very job Imperial clan remember all
the Emperor's surname gel in the Song
Dynasty now later on plenty of scorn is
going to be heaped on thi Jing but for
now he was making positive changes when
wait song took over the song Treasury
was almost depleted mainly from the cost
of defending the borders but sigh Jing
helped put the fiscal house back in
order within a few years hoyt songs
government was packed with reformers but
even these guys couldn't get along the
five years from 1101 to 1106 were filled
with plenty of rancor at the top level
amidst all the bickering ty Jing ended
up being dismissed for a time from the
top post even enough officials were clad
for this so that all it took was a comet
to appear in the sky to give quite song
the absolute proof he needed that tie
Jing had to go but he was brought back
in the next year I know all this
partisan bickering reform-minded
liberals and staunch conservatives court
politics and dirty tricks all sounds
strangely familiar to a lot of you
especially to my fellow Americans keys
this kind of thing is alive and well
today just as it was in the 12th century
in China some things never change I
guess so the wait song Emperor despite
all the discord amongst his officials he
was resolved to being a reforming
emperor and he set up an advisory office
in 1102 de look into any partisan
resistance to his plans I mentioned his
first priorities out of the starting
gate were in education including how to
educate future officials how officials
were to be chosen and also all kinds of
new reforms concerning the dealings
inside the palace all kinds of reforms
were also enacted that put some
semblance of a safety net in society
where widows orphans and childless
couples were concerned public clinics
and pharmacies were set up pauper's
grave yards were built as were shelters
for the homeless when the winter set in
it was things like this that were called
for this was nothing that sexy or worth
building a monument for but this
mattered to wait song and he was the one
who called for these kinds of things
some of these popper cemeteries have
since been dug up by archaeologists so
we we know they existed the graves back
then were three feet deep the gravestone
would list the person's name age and
date of burial after weights on put his
foot down with all the fighting and
resistance to his policies he resorted
to implementing a kind of blacklist it
was hard to find its high jinks
fingerprints on this blacklist but it
was thought that he was the invisible
hand behind this new way of doing things
in all about 500 officials got the rug
pulled out from under them as far as
their cushy postings in chi Fong they
left and then well those with less
egregious offenses were later after time
welcome back
anyways in this age of reform during
white songs rain wang unsure was dragged
out and put on a pedestal and after
enough heads rolled the anti reformers
or yo partisans or whatever you want to
call them they laid low for the time
being and then just as it is now when
the pushback against anti reformers
became a little too extreme word began
to spread that way tom was being too
repressive and after a ground swell
became apparent weight song would loosen
up and bring the temperature level down
headline conservatives like sue sure
were really vilified i'm gonna go pay
homage to his statue next week when i'm
in hangzhou sushi or su dongpo is a
future topic he had a very rich life and
as a hometown hero in hangzhou great
poet statesman calligrapher writer
painter the whole shebang and a real
character too he wasn't a fan of wang
i'm sure or his policies so this
naturally lined him up on the wrong side
of weight song so he was particularly
attacked and held up as a bad example he
died in 1101 during weight zones first
year as emperor so he wasn't around to
defend himself later on ty Jing's son
once made the mistake of praising
sutures poetry waves on came down hard
on him he was stripped of his titles and
offices and given the old pink slip and
it took all of tidings pleading and
conniving to get his son back in white
zones good graces in the American system
of government we have what's known as
executive orders Obama has used this
power 175 times already Bush 43 did it
291 times and Clinton 364 Wade song did
the same thing he left us behind a whole
slew of what we're known as Imperial
brush edicts these Imperial brush edicts
were sometimes the Emperor sounding off
about something or showing personal
interest in a matter sometimes he would
issue one of these edicts to show
personal commitment to a cause or an
issue these edicts that he would person
issue were his version of what we call
the bully pulpit hair in the beautiful
country some would be carefully crafted
and concern an issue of national
significance sometimes they were just
hastily written while an official waited
in the next room wait song did this a
lot and many of these documents survived
to the present day but you know how it
is the boss sends out a memo and
everyone in the system knows how to
delay implementation or establish a
loophole here and there there was like a
game whack-a-mole between the Emperor
and his twenty thousand officials and
civil servants a new hole would appear
just as Wade's on would try to plug one
weight song was a big-time Taoist up
till the Song Dynasty Taoism was mostly
embraced by only those in the top level
of society it was more of a belief
system that the aristocrats took to but
in the Song Dynasty Taoism really went
mass market and his Taoism spread
throughout this new vibrant song China
society all these Taoist masters emerged
and with the rise of these Taoist
masters came the fashion of carrying or
wearing talismans that gave off you know
special powers and protected people
believers in Taoism seldom left home
without these things hanging on their
belt or somewhere Taoism and Buddhism
were always competitors at the imperial
court depending on the Emperor one
always had a leg up on the other Wade's
own was clearly an emperor who favored
Taoism over Buddhism with its concept of
way and the cosmic rituals and gods
Taoism was very attractive to a guy like
the white song Emperor Taoism thrived
during the Song Dynasty particularly
during the reigns of both Quade song and
the third song emperor zhongzong Jang
Song of course the son of the tides own
Emperor brother to the founder gel Kwan
Yin he was one of the early ones Quade
song made it his business to outdo the
Jun song Emperor as far as patronage of
Taoist masters went and building of
temples with all the support he gave to
writing collecting standardizing and
cataloging Taoist texts
to remember from an old podcast the Lee
family who founded the tongue dynasty
back in the 7th century as part of their
marketing brochure they claimed ancestry
to the founder of Taoism himself good
old loud so they milked everything they
could out of Taoism to build their power
and majesty you see the same thing in
our present day a political force will
ally itself to a certain religion and
through osmosis would gain whatever
additional legitimacy or power that
religion could yield quaid song was this
sort and his religion of choice was
Taoism hook line and sinker strangely
enough unlike Qin Shi Huang and others
the immortality aspect of Taoism didn't
interest weight song at all and Taoism
with its alchemy and ways to obtain
superhuman powers and eternal life you
can imagine how the common folk might
take to something like this protection
from evil spirits eternal life flexible
gods who offered a lot of wiggle room as
far as one's behavior or conduct went
and what can be better than that I
mentioned Leo Hong Kong last episode he
was the most famous Taoist master of his
day the talismans that he produced were
said to be the most effective and
contained all kinds of powers to
preserve your health he served Jude song
and now waits on the Jade song emperor
built a temple at mount mall and this
served as the base for the Shang Ching
or the highest clarity movement in
Taoism mouth sean is about halfway
between nanjing and russia in Jiangsu
province wait songs belief and this
particular brand of Taoism was total and
during the time when Leo hong kong was
alive Wade's on showered this great
Taoist master with lavish gifts and this
guy got more face time with the Emperor
than anyone except you know the highest
ministers anyway Leo Hong Kong died in
1108 and his successor was dodging sure
who filled Leo Hong Kong's very big
shoes quite song had maintained a very
close and prolific
respondents with Leo Hong Kong and
dodging chur thankfully many of these
documents survived to the present day
and they offer yet another nice window
into the daily life and thoughts of the
white song Emperor these letters reveal
that wait song knew his stuff when it
came to Taoism he was no poser he truly
believed it made him a better ruler and
allowed him to better serve the people
one of the works weights on felt
compelled to do was to sponsor the
collection study and complete
standardization of all existing Taoist
text so that there was a single liturgy
weight song did his utmost to
incorporate aspects of Taoism into the
daily rituals of the court including the
art and literature and when natural
phenomena would appear wayde's on ran
straight to the Taoist writings to get
interpretations about whatever was
observed and what it meant Confucianism
was so strict and confining poison felt
with Taoism you could take it anywhere
you wanted to go let me quote from
Patricia a breeze book regarding Emperor
weight songs Taoist chops quote from a
Taoist perspective one could question
the depth of his knowledge and view him
as a shallow dilettante from a Confucian
perspective one could to the contrary
view him as overly credulous and easily
misled by the florid rhetoric of Taoist
masters or perhaps drawn in by the
visual splendor of Taoist temples yet
another approach would be to question
his sincerity to posit that he was
cynical in his use of Taoism trying to
gain political advantage from his
patronage Confucius had praised the Duke
of Joe but in weight zones time the Duke
of Joe had been dead for 21 centuries
already and the time had come to freshen
up some of these Palace rituals and
ceremonies wayde's on went on a
reforming binge beginning in the second
era of his reign the haunting era and
1102 he reformed court music basically
resetting the Chinese musical scale and
then casting bells tuned to this new
scale again seems petty but you know in
the 12th century as in the fifth
suree bc this was important and music
was part of every ceremony ritual or
proclamation and casting a new set of
imperial bells on the order of the
Emperor was it was considered a big deal
at 1104 and 1105 the so-called at nine
cauldrons were cast a magnificent temple
was built to house them and the Great
Architect Li Jian who I mentioned last
episode the guy who designed weight
songs Villa when he was still a mere
prince he designed it wait song really
went overboard with these massive
ceremonial cauldrons the biggest one was
nine feet tall and he built nine of
these things the value quedes on put on
these things as far as their ritualistic
and symbolic value to the dynasty into
the country's well-being was
immeasurable his whole reign these nine
cauldrons were you know another big deal
to him and you know he thought he was
doing everyone a favor by calling for
such a set of cauldrons to be made by
the way the same guy who convinced
Quaid's on to cast the bells was the
same one who told him he should do the
nine cauldrons so you know what I'm
thinking so all this hardware was great
Wade song was calling for all these
expensive and high-profile adornments to
the palace and to His Majesty he was
building temples and making big plans
for the future and young weights own in
sponsoring so many new construction
projects always considered himself the
final arbiter of good taste and all
things related to architecture I said it
before the weight song Emperor was no
delegator I mean he always got
personally involved in these matters but
to an emperor like Wade's on wood
fancied himself a bit of an artistic and
literary genius he needed the software
as well as the hardware it wasn't enough
to have the greatest builders and
craftsmen building all these monuments
he also needed to attract the finest
minds and all the Arts and Sciences on
top of that the greatest literary
masters needed to be brought to the
palace as well poets today both amateur
and professional often have to give
their work away for free or beg nicely
for donations but in Wade zones time the
great poets were
where the superstars of their day and
were eagerly sought out in the epic work
this complete song poems of the 270,000
poems contained in the work 414 came
from white zone now whether they got
included on their own merits or if
someone was trying to flatter the
emperor who's to say 2,000 of those
poems came from su sure so weights own
song Imperial Palace and chi Fong served
as the black hole that drew in all the
greatest minds talents of their day and
one good thing about working for the
Emperor he could afford the most
expensive pigments paints the best tools
brushes silk canvases collections of
books the best of everything that any
artist philosopher poet scholar or
craftsman might require no problem for
the Emperor to afford the best and
remember during the northern song that's
when book printing was exploding and
great works could be disseminated
throughout the land now of course it's
the opposite and book printing is
imploding but digital more than makes up
for that today we have people in
government known as technocrats for
example trained engineers working in
government on matters of engineering
technocrats are trained in certain
sciences and have specialties that they
bring to the government to theoretically
solve problems faster and bring
specialization to the table now up until
the song there weren't many technocrats
priests own the only way to serve as a
government official was to memorize
confucius and pass the civil service
exams and get your gene sure degree now
in the psalm especially during quaid
songs time if you brought some degree of
specialization that could solve his
headaches you were hired you no longer
had to be a scholar official he didn't
have to take the civil service exam
route to get into government anymore
wait song at a good right hand man
inside Ching inspired by Wong I'm sure
teijin carried out the particulars of
education reform he was also a famous
micromanager anti jing himself was
considered quite the accomplished and
respected calligrapher
day he got very involved in all aspects
of Quade songs reform both of the Arts
and Sciences as well as the political
performs quedes on ushered in an
overhaul of the field of medicine he was
a huge patron of advancing medical
knowledge Quaid's all not only sponsored
the construction of many medical schools
but also in the compilation of medical
texts and in research as well and just
as the great artists were attracted to
the palace so were the greatest medical
minds of their day all the most
respected and well known institutions
today do the same thing in attracting
the greatest minds a today's
microsurgery and amazing medical cures
all had their beginning somewhere so
wait song helped move the ball forward
on that front even though carrying
amulets and reciting incantations was
back then still considered a cure just
as King Helu in the ancient state of
wool head soon soon as his military
advisor who aids on for eight years had
lead gia as his chief architect I said
before what what soon so was to strategy
the gia was to building an architecture
and Quade zone used him well as I
mentioned last time about li jia his
young sulfa sure came out early and wait
songs rain this was the definitive
handbook for building standards it hit a
hundred and ninety-three illustrations
and contained in the scrolls were the
state of the art and how to make paint
tiles how to saw would build a house it
even detailed the individual work steps
involved in manufacturing certain things
how much a worker could saw Carrie or
pound in a single work day was also
analyzed in the gang self-assured this
work had it all and it's because of this
that we remember the great architect
legit as Wade songs head guy in palace
building Directorate for eight years the
gia gave the palace a total makeover but
it's a high up official in this
Directorate he also had to handle a
whole portfolio of other
responsibilities design construction and
upkeep of all buildings city walls
bridges boats and carriages he had to
manage all the craftsmen and the employ
of the Emperor and
manage all the accounting of everything
he touched ya li jia not too well known
in between the time he served wait song
he found time to take care of his ailing
parents in the most filial manner of the
day copy several thousand books in his
own hand achieved excellence in
calligraphy and painting wrote works on
horses and musical instruments Quaid's
on loved him and he mourned him when he
died we're painting was concerned wait
song came to the throne already quite
the expert and his standards were
astronomical to be a top rate painter at
the court of weight song you really had
to be good and they were a lot of these
guys it was in the song that painters
began to sign their works sometimes a
poem would be incorporated into the
painting and in this way the three
perfections could be manifested in a
single work even though from multiple
sources in weight songs time the big
three themes in painting were flowers
and birds Taoist and Buddhist subjects
and mountains and rivers weights on
himself was quite accomplished as
painter of flowers and birds one of his
flower bird paintings a hand scroll is
hanging at the Museum of Fine Arts in
Boston a lot of his paintings can be
seen in the two greatest museums of
Chinese art and Beijing and Taipei
whatever weight songs accomplishments
were as a painter they were shouted out
by his achievements in calligraphy this
is where hoyt song is remembered taking
the so-called gold inlaid knife style of
calligraphy developed two centuries
earlier by Lee you of the southern
tongue dynasty only into his 20s Wade
zong introduced his show jeanty or
slender gold style of calligraphy and it
was this that became his calling card no
one had ever written Chinese characters
quite like this it was described as
character strokes that were slender and
stiff with overflowing style spirit they
had sharp edges and corners and to the
trained eye they were very distinctive
because the most distinguishing
characteristic
calligraphy style were the long skinny
strokes waves on wood sometime express
himself through his calligraphy perhaps
thickening strokes to add emphasis or
emotion if you were a friend of weight
song trust me you had his calligraphy on
your wall he gave gifts of his
calligraphy died to everyone friends
officials guess anyone no shortage of
this stuff and thankfully plenty of it
managed to survive Kublai Khan the
Taiping rebellion Japanese invasion
Civil War and the Cultural Revolution I
was at a friend's place in Washington
recently and you know being the man of
good taste that he was he had some
weights on calligraphy hanging on his
wall the curator of painting at the
Palace Museum in Beijing a modern
scholar named you weigh set of weights
own quote no other monarch in world
history can compare to Wade's on in the
range of court arts that flourished
under his supervision Patricia Aubrey
listed six grand projects that Quaid's
own took on during his reign that showed
what was important to him his
involvement and all of these projects
was as I said hands on he was hands-on
from inception to completion no matter
painting or a new building these
projects in short were in instituting a
new Confucian ritual code one upping his
predecessor the jun zhang m / with a
bigger and better Taoist canon he also
oversaw the massive work entitled
records of auspicious responses of the
jeong-ho rain the junk huh period being
11 11 to 11 18 this was the fourth era
of weight songs rain this work was an
illustrated history of all the
auspicious things that happened during
quaid songs rang to date regrettably
only a few of these paintings made it
down to the present day but word has
come down to us from people who knew
that it was pretty amazing wait song
like a lot of emperors was a major
collector of everything that was
literary or of the Arts from time to
time great men from history would look
at the massive accumulation of knowledge
and just feel compelled to get it all
organized into one single source
more than eight centuries ago people
still dreamed in their own simple way
about the internet that we enjoy today
one central place where all knowledge
either general or in a certain subject
could be contained the Library of
Alexandria the OL encyclopedia the couch
and shoe Quade songs particular focus
was in art and culture books paintings
calligraphy antiques stone rubbings
ancient Jade's vessels anything at all
in weight songs own time more than
twenty eight centuries of Chinese
history had already passed so there were
a lot of things buried all over the
place Quaid's all made it an imperial
shang wu a major project to collect
everything organize it all and catalog
it the whole field of archaeology really
took off in the song especially
underweight songs time on the throne
another of Wade's owns her
larger-than-life projects was a royal
park adjacent to the palace where the
northern song imperial family could get
back and spread out massive ornamental
rocks and trees were dug up and
transported great distances to be placed
in this massive royal park of all the
major monumental projects that weight
song sponsored this park with its
man-made mountains more than any other
fell under a dark black cloud of
corruption and excess it's only natural
with all these huge infrastructural
projects weights own called for that
people would you know cleverly line
their pockets there are no shortage of
stories of waste and corruption that
came about from these big-ticket
projects white zone called for and these
are among the reasons given to explain
his shortcomings anywho I think we're
going to put the bookmark back in here
next time we'll look more at the court
life that white song was the central
part of as well as how he actually did
his daily work as Emperor and in the
next episode we'll see quaid songs rain
reach its peak and then he's going to
make a decision that later he lives to
regret but that's all for next time for
now this is laszlo Montgomery of the
China history podcast
coming to you from Lucci at swig in
downtown pudong shanghai here for a
couple more days and then off to
hangzhou to go study t history with a
couple of local experts there more
weights on next time and the time after
that take care yalls and i hope you'll
join me next episode for another
exciting time at the china history
podcast